IP law EDx course [Pdk Wagner]
Patents Copyrights & trademarks (IP law). Trade secrets; Rights of publicity.
IP law theory; (Discuss problem)

Patent law: What; Where, Rules, Coverage, Scope, Infringement; Tradeoffs.

Copyright law: Subject matter; limits; infringement, fair use & DRM; Policy.

Trademarks: What; Where; How; Scope; Infringement & Dilution(?), Fair use & usage on internet.

Future of IP; Legislative proposals; Alternate scope for improvements.

Why IP Laws:
- Rapid expansion in the past 20 years
- Greater amount of litigation
- Greater scope in law field
- Ability to know the laws; more patents to protect
- Involvement of Supreme Court in IP law
Limited by size; Protection
Rules aren’t set; It changes and has been changing; Supreme Court is now setting rules.
Knowing IP means you can help set the rules. (Really?)


ToW → type of work
Std → standard
Utility → use
Aqu → Acquisition
Val → Validity
Regbody → Regulatory body
Patents [Inventor]
ToW: Any new and useful process, machine, manufactured or comparison of matter. [Inventions; tangible/ intangible]
Std: [Novel (unique)][Nonobvious]
Utility: [It has to be useful] [disclosed]
Acquisition
Application: [Application to USPTO at Washington] assigned to patent examiner
Time: 18 months to 5/ 6/ 7 years.
Regulation body: Federal; 35 USC
No state jurisdiction, appealing goes through single appellate compared to regional circuit.
Validity: 30 years from the date of filing.

Key: Federal immunity
Trade Marks: [Distinct Distinguishability]
ToW: Distinctive marks on product appearance
Std: Distinctiveness, the consuming (?) public should be able to identify the underlying source of product with trademark.
Acquisition: Must be federally registered & used in interstate commerce to get federal protection
Regulation body: Federal law. 15 USC & separate state laws
Validity: Trade marks can be perpetual or forever. Trade marks can become generic.
Key: Liability of losing(?) trademark if consuming public ceases to identify the name with its source; eg Aspirin(?).

Copyrights [creativity based content]
Type of work: Any literary or artistic work [creative]
Standard: Originality, Authorship ( creative process of creation by author); fixation in a tangible medium
Acquisition: Automatic upon movement of creation; federal protection requires registration by sending a copy to registrar of copyright in Washington DC for copy right to be enforced.
Law (Reg): 17 usc exclusively federal
Validity: Lifetime of author + 70 yrs or in some cases lifetime of author + 95/ 120 yrs.
Trade Secrets:
Tow: Anything; (should be secret info)
Std: Secrecy; or effort to protect
Acquisition: Automatic on creation; No registration required
Law: State law; 44/50 states
Validity: Potentially perpetual
Rights of Publicity:
Tow: Public reputation & social image.
Std: Public needs to recognize you as a public figure.
Acquisition: Automatic
Law: State law
Validity: Potentially perpetual
Design patents [Patent Design only]
ToW: Product design; Need not be
Utility: Need no use cas(?); Design specific
Std: Need to be novelty(? Novel??)(unique) and have to disclose it;
Acquisitions: Similar to traditional patent system
Law: Federal Law; 35 USC
Validity: 14 years from the date of grant.
Theory of IP rights & Central debate
Why have IP rights?
Basic Economics of IP
Central debate in IP
Why have IP rights?
Natural Rights Theory [France]
Personhood(?) theory
Utilization theory [USA]
US Constitution: Article 1, Section 8 clauses

Utilitarian basis of IP
What does it mean?
A. IP is a grant to exclude others from the scope of the right.
- IP is functionalist: A means to an end pro invention & Pro discovery
- IP rights are an interference with the free market that needs to be justified functionally.
Public goods [IP characteristics:]
Non Rival: Any body can view/ look or use the idea. (Intangible) Non rival(?)
Non Excluding: Ideas or utility cannot be excluded from being used or implied.
The goal of government intervention is to prevent public good from happening(?) to foster rival and exclusion specific goods.
IP law is a marginal change in the incentive structure.

Trademarks
Protecting trademarks protects investments & goodwill
Positive feelings towards the underlying source of logo or images indicates goodwill
Investment goes into creating Brand Awareness
Investment in goodwill:
Reduces search cost for consumer
Increases efficiency in marketplace
Investment in product goodwill enforces investment in product quality.
Alternative (? Wouldn’t Alternate suffice?) Scenario: If no incentive was provided to build brand awareness, anybody could impersonate one & other creating a market of low quality goods & services.
Protecting trademarks → companies protect their goodwill → investment in goodwill → building(?) high quality goods.
Incentive Structure
More goodwill → Lower search cost → Higher product quality
Economic Spectrum
Protecting trademarks → Protecting “good will” → Investments in goodwill → Low search cost & High productivity

2.3. Macro-Economic Principle:
IP rights allow Supra Marginal economic returns
Competitive Market: Prices Approach Marginal(economic returns?) less than Competitive Market: Prices Rise above Marginal economic returns.
IP rights are not monopolies.

Price vs Quantity
Difference between competitive equilibrium to (Monopolistic equilibrium to maximizing(?) profits)
IP rights are between monopoly & competitive equilibrium.
Dead Weight loss:
The gap between monopolistic equilibrium or IP rights equilibrium to competitive equilibrium.
IP rights cost
Monopolization cost: price difference vs. utility
Rent seeking:
Racing
Patent rolls (?)
Restriction of future innovation
Significant administrative costs
Significant legislative costs
Dead weight societal loss
Q.: Are benefits greater than the incurred costs?

3.1. Components of Patent
Architecture of patent system
Administrative Agency (PTO)
The patent document
Private Enforcement system (Litigation)
Administrative Agency (Patent Office)
Evaluates applications for compliance with standards of patentability
The patent document
Establishes boundaries of protection & claims
* requires disclosure
Litigation:
Market component determines reward & compensation; involves full review of PTO grant of rights
* could result in the patent owner losing his rights & patent. High risk.

Patent document:
* Front page: To present to the user, reviewer as much of the critical information as possible in a concise & precise manner.
* All US patents are downloadable from USPTO
* Key components: (on front page) ish(?).
Title
Serial Number
Date (prior art & priority) validating(? Validation??)
Issue date ( to become prior art for others)
Inventor name & Assignee (ownership)
Contact information of owner
Technology fields for classification
Citations for references
Prior Art( ? Articles??)
Abstract (description of invention by inventor)
Must include diagrams of products to deposit  flow. If software, flow charts are essential
Specification: Inclusion of every thing on background of technology, problem & solution offered by the technology patent; Detailed description; Use cases or production thoughts of inventor.

Imp. Claims
Must be explicit to claim what does and does not fall under the scope of invention
Claim does not need to explain how to create/ make/ use the invention.
The incentive for inventor to use vague language is to broaden the scope of claim during litigation.
There ought to be a balance between broad & narrow patent claims to be open to scope but lesser to meet standards and on (?) be dismissed (declared invalid)
 Watch vagueness mustn’t increase search cost.

3.2. The life of a patent
Invention → Application → (Prosecution) → Patent Issue → (Enforcement 20yrs) → Expiration
Prosecution:
Ex parte administrative process
Private/ Secret (for 18 months normally)
Procedures allow for “continuing” applications.
2 stage appeals:
Board Patent Appeals & Interferences (Internal)
Federal Court & Federal circuit (Externally)
Re- examination
Enforcement:
A judicial litigation process in Federal courts
Courts are empowered to review the validity of patents
Patents enjoy a statutory “presumption of validity” [valid until proven otherwise]
Declaration judgement action(s?) aren’t (?Singular??) uncommon [suing patent owner for a declaration that client does not infringe that patent)
Lawsuit in reverse.
* More than 1% of all patents are litigated
* More than 5% of all patents are licensed
* Cost of litigation : 2M to lesser than 4.5M
* Average expected value of a patent is lesser than 0$ (?)
* Value of patent is decided by Market response.

3.3. Patent Theory
Q. What does a patent do exactly?
A.
Incentive provision to Invent
Incentive provision to Disclose
Incentive provision to Commercialize (?)
Incentive provision to Design around (?)
Incentive provision to invest in R & D

Mechanism
A patent is a private right to exclude others from the scope of a patent.
Can be bought, sold, traded, licensed, divided & valued. Similar to property.
Patents aren’t monopolies
Reward depends on market usage
Monopolization cost
Rent seeking behavior
Restriction on future innovation
Race to acquisition of patent
Outcome:
The benefits outweigh the costs.
There are other options employed to foster innovation
3.4.
